Reactjs Tutorial (#2330)
emacs-lsp/lsp-mode: docs/tutorials/reactjs-tutorial.md

MetaDescription: React JavaScript tutorial showing IntelliSense, debugging, and code navigation support in the Emacs editor.
---
# Using React in Emacs

[React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) is a popular JavaScript library developed by Facebook for building web application user interfaces. The Emacs editor supports React.js IntelliSense and code navigation out of the box.

![Welcome to React](images/reactjs/welcome-to-react.png)

## Welcome to React

We'll be using the `create-react-app` [generator](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html#create-react-app) for this tutorial. To use the generator as well as run the React application server, you'll need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) JavaScript runtime and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (Node.js package manager) installed. npm is included with Node.js which you can download and install from [Node.js downloads](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

>**Tip**: To test that you have Node.js and npm correctly installed on your machine, you can type `node --version` and `npm --version` in a terminal or command prompt.

You can now create a new React application by typing:

```bash
npx create-react-app my-app
```

> where `my-app` is the name of the folder for your application. This may take a few minutes to create the React application and install its dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `my-app` is the name of the folder for your React application. It may take a few minutes to create it and to install its dependencies.
```

Grammar

>**Note**: If you've previously installed `create-react-app` globally via `npm install -g create-react-app`, we recommend you uninstall the package using `npm uninstall -g create-react-app` to ensure that npx always uses the latest version.

> Let's quickly run our React application by navigating to the new folder and typing `npm start` to start the web server and open the application in a browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's quickly run our React application by navigating to the new folder and typing `npm start` to start the web server and to open the application in a browser:
```

```bash
cd my-app
npm start
```

> >Note: in order to avoid the following [issue](https://github.com/eclipse-theia/theia/issues/6720#issuecomment-563488535) you have to add `jsconfig.json` in the top of the folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Note: in order to avoid [this issue](https://github.com/eclipse-theia/theia/issues/6720#issuecomment-563488535), you have to add a `jsconfig.json` in the top of the folder:
```

``` json
{
    "compilerOptions": {
        "module": "commonjs",
        "target": "es2016",
        "jsx": "preserve",
        "allowJs": true,
        "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
        "allowNonTsExtensions": true
    }
}
```

<!-- TBD mention yarn and link -->

You should see the React logo and a link to "Learn React" on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. We'll leave the web server running while we look at the application with Emacs.

> To open your React application in Emacs, open another terminal or command prompt window, navigate to the `my-app` folder and type ``:

Reviewer: > To open your React application in Emacs, open another terminal or command prompt window, navigate to the `my-app` folder and type ``

Is this some markdown syntax I don't understand, or did you forget to specify a key-sequence? (the `\`\`` at the end)

Author: This sentence is not adapter to emacs tutorial, fixed in latest diff.

>**Tip**: For optimal experience use either `Emacs 27.1` or [gccemacs](https://akrl.sdf.org/gccemacs.html).

### Emacs configuration

> Here it is minimalistic sufficient configuration to run this tutorial with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Here is a minimal configuration to run this tutorial with:
```

``` emacs-lisp
(package-initialize)
(add-to-list 'package-archives '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/") t)
(setq package-selected-packages '(lsp-mode yasnippet lsp-treemacs helm-lsp projectile hydra flycheck company avy which-key helm-xref dap-mode zenburn-theme json-mode))
(when (cl-find-if-not #'package-installed-p package-selected-packages)
  (package-refresh-contents)
  (mapc #'package-install package-selected-packages))
(load-theme 'zenburn t)
(helm-mode)
(require 'helm-xref)
(define-key global-map [remap find-file] #'helm-find-files)
(define-key global-map [remap execute-extended-command] #'helm-M-x)
(define-key global-map [remap switch-to-buffer] #'helm-mini)
(which-key-mode)
(add-hook 'prog-mode-hook #'lsp)
(setq gc-cons-threshold (* 100 1024 1024)
      read-process-output-max (* 1024 1024)
      company-idle-delay 0.0
      company-minimum-prefix-length 1
      create-lockfiles nil ;; lock files will kill `npm start'
      lsp-headerline-breadcrumb-enable t)
(with-eval-after-load 'lsp-mode
  (require 'dap-chrome)
  (add-hook 'lsp-mode-hook #'lsp-enable-which-key-integration)
  (yas-global-mode))
```

```bash
emacs my-app/src/index.js
```

> ### Installing typescript language server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installing the typescript language server
```

> `Emacs` supports automatic intallation of the language servers so the first time you start emacs in javascript file and you run `M-x lsp` you will be asked to select the language server to install. Select `ts-ls`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Emacs` supports automatic language server installation, so the first time you run `M-x lsp` in a JavaScript file opened in it, you will be prompted for a language server to install. Select `ts-ls`.
```

Also, is `Emacs` the right term here? It isn't actually Emacs that does the server installation, but `lsp-mode`. `eglot`, for example, [doesn't seem to have that](https://github.com/joaotavora/eglot/issues/69). I understand that newcomers might not know/care about the distinction, so if they are the target audience, this is probably better.

To set a breakpoint in `index.js`, click on the gutter to the left of the line numbers. This will set a breakpoint which will be visible as a red circle.

![Set a breakpoint](images/reactjs/breakpoint.png)

### Configure the Chrome debugger

We need to initially configure the [debugger](https://github.com/emacs-lsp/dap-mode). To do so, create a `launch.json` file in the root folder in your project which includes a configuration to launch the website. Your `launch.json` should look like this:

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "type": "chrome",
            "request": "launch",
            "name": "Launch Chrome against localhost",
            "url": "http://localhost:3000",
            "webRoot": "${workspaceFolder}"
        }
    ]
}
```

Ensure that your development server is running (`npm start`). Then type `M-x dap-debug` or use `Debug` -> `Start` menu. The source code where the breakpoint is set runs on startup before the debugger was attached, so we won't hit the breakpoint until we refresh the web page. Refresh the page and you should hit your breakpoint.

![Debugger hitting breakpoint](images/reactjs/hit-breakpoint.png)

> You can step through your source code `M-x dap-next`, inspect variables such as `element`, and see the call stack of the client side React application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can step through your source code using `M-x dap-next`, inspect variables such as `element`, and see the call stack of the client side React application.
```

![Debug element variable](images/reactjs/debug-variable.png)

The **Debugger for Chrome** extension README has lots of information on other configurations, working with sourcemaps, and troubleshooting. You can review it their [README](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-chrome-debug)

### Live editing and debugging

If you are using [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) together with your React app, you can have a more efficient workflow by taking advantage of webpack's HMR mechanism which enables you to have live editing and debugging directly from Emacs. You can learn more in this [Live edit and debug your React apps directly from Emacs(TO BE PORTED TO EMACS)](---) blog post and the [webpack Hot Module Replacement documentation(TO BE PORTED TO EMACS)](---).

## Linting

> Linters analyze your source code and can warn you about potential problems before you run your application. The JavaScript language services included with Emacs has syntax error checking support by default, which you can see in action in the **Errors List** panel (`M-x lsp-treemacs-errors-list`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linters analyze your source code and can warn about potential problems before running your application. The JavaScript language service included with Emacs has syntax error checking support by default, which you can see in action in the **Errors List** panel (`M-x lsp-treemacs-errors-list`).
```

Try making a small error in your React source code and you'll see a red squiggle and an error in the **Errors List** panel.

![JavaScript error](images/reactjs/js-error.png)

Linters can provide more sophisticated analysis, enforcing coding conventions and detecting anti-patterns. A popular JavaScript linter is [ESLint](https://eslint.org/). ESLint, when combined with the ESLint Emacs [extension](https://emacs-lsp.github.io/lsp-mode/page/lsp-eslint/), provides a great in-product linting experience.

First, install the ESLint command-line tool:

```bash
npm install -g eslint
```

Then install the `ESLint language server` by doing `M-x lsp-install-server RET eslint RET`.

Once the ESLint extension is installed, you'll want to create an ESLint configuration file, `.eslintrc.js`. You can create one using `M-x lsp-eslint-create-default-configuration`.

> The command will prompt you to answer a series of questions in separate window. Take the defaults, and it will create a `.eslintrc.js` file in your project root that looks something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command will prompt you to answer a series of questions in a separate window. Accept the defaults, and it will create a `.eslintrc.js` file in your project root that looks something like this:
```
